# CS231n

* CS231n Winter 2016
  * https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NfnWJUyUJYU&list=PLkt2uSq6rBVctENoVBg1TpCC7OQi31AlC
* http://cs231n.github.io/

Fei-Fei Li (李飞飞), is a Professor of Computer Science at Stanford University. She is the director of the Stanford Artificial Intelligence Lab (SAIL) and the Stanford Vision Lab.

* Dartmouth Conference 1956, the birth of AI
* 1959, Hubel & Wiesel. , "*Receptive fields of single neurones in the cat's striate cortext*", the begining learning about deep learning networks.
* 1963, Larry Roberts's PHD thesis **Block world**
* In the summer of 1966, the birth of computer vision.
* 1970s, "*Vision*", David Marr, the beggining of deep learning architecture.
* The first AI winter 1974 - 1980
  * Philosopher John Lucas argued that Gödel's incompleteness theorem showed that a formal system (such as a computer program) could never see the truth of certain statements, while a human being could.
* Boom 1980 - 1987
  * In1981, Japan set aside \$850 million for the 5th generation computer project.
  * UK began ₤350 million **Alvey Project**
  * USA MCC(Microelectronics and Computer Technology Corporation) to fund large scale projects in AI.
  * In 1982, physicist John Hopfield proved **Hopfield net** could learn and process information in a completely new way.
  * **Backpropagation**, a new method for training neural network, was popularized.
* Bust: the second AI winter 1987 - 1993
* 1997, Shi & Malik, Normalized Cut
* 1997-05-11, **Deep Blue** beated a reigning world chess champion.
* 1999, "**SIFT**" & Object Recognition, **David Lowe**
* 2001, Face Detection, Viola & Jones
* 2005, a Standford robot won the *DARPA Grand Challenge* by driving autonomously for 131 miles along an unrehearsed desert trail.
* 2005, Histogram of Gradients (**HoG**)
* 2006, SPatial Pyramid Matching
* 2009, Deformable Part Model

## Prepare

```shell
# Python virtualenv
cd assignment1
sudo pip install virtualenv      # This may already be installed
virtualenv -p python3 .env       # Create a virtual environment (python3)
# Note: you can also use "virtualenv .env" to use your default python (please note we support 3.6)
source .env/bin/activate         # Activate the virtual environment
pip install -r requirements.txt  # Install dependencies
# Work on the assignment for a while ...
deactivate                       # Exit the virtual environment
```